# Data Science blog post
Indetail explanation of work can be found on Medium [article](https://medium.com/@pramodch/does-airbnb-prices-have-impact-in-seattle-kaggle-airbnb-seattle-data-de37d8a5ea8) written by me.
### Introduction / Motivation
Since 2008, guests and hosts have used Airbnb to travel in a more unique, personalized way. As part of the Airbnb Inside initiative, this dataset describes the listing activity of homestays in Seattle, WA.
 In this project, the dataset consists of 3 parts 
 * Listings includes full descriptions and average review score
 * Reviews, including unique id for each reviewer and detailed comments
 * Calendar, including listing id and the price and availability for that day
 ##### During analysis, i have tried to answer three questions related to price:
 * Price variation in Seattle — weekly, monthly etc.
 * Does review score given by users depends on price?
 * How does Price per person per night stay varies among neighborhood in Seattle
### Results outline
* The price variation to book a room or apartment in Seattle based on seasonality is highlighted and concluded that Monday is costlier and Saturday being cheaper. The busiest months are July and August, while they saw high prices and low availability.
2. For second question, reviews score doesn't depend on price of the room and also tried to look into revenue generated by particular neighborhood to have abstract look. Additional point noticed during analysis was reviews score directs about cleanliness and communication of host.
3. For third question and took metric as price per person per night and compared in different neighborhoods. Delridge has least avg. price per person per night which is followed by Northgate. It would be better idea to avoid Downtown and Capitol Hill because of high prices.
 ### Acnowldgments
 Data set is available on [kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/airbnb/seattle). 
 To work and how to proceed with data can be found in .ipynb file in the code
 
